top seven common mistakes to avoid
before building a shipping containers
hello and welcome to this week's video
not every shipping container is suitable
for building a container house the
general misconception that any container
can be used as a building block for a
new container home is misleading with
the rising cost of building and more
people becoming environmental conscious
building with shipping containers is
becoming a new fad for green building
and also an alternative cost-effective
material for building a new house if you
love shipping container homes or are
exploring the possibilities of building
your own this video brings to you the
top seven common mistakes to avoid
before building a shipping container
house stay tuned to find out the do's
and don'ts of building with shipping
containers feel free to subscribe to our
channel for our weekly videos on
shipping container home design number
seven buying the wrong type of shipping
container purchasing the wrong type of
shipping container is the most common
mistake people make when building their
shipping container home shipping
containers are not the same they vary in
length and height a majority of the
people who do not know the difference
built their home using regular shipping
containers apart from the twenty foot
and 40 foot regular shipping container
we also have high cubed containers of
similar lengths regular shipping
containers are eight foot six inches in
height whereas high cube containers are
nine foot six inches tall the additional
foot on high cube containers is perfect
for putting ceiling insulation without
compromising the Headroom of the
habitable space however high cube
containers cost slightly more than the
regular ones but considering the
resultant benefits it is worth the cost
number six buying very old containers
buying an old container may be cheap but
will cost you more to restore and
maintain
this is true to the old adage cheap can
be expensive old containers come with
challenges of dampness corrosion
deformed corners and dented wall and
roof panels it is advisable to inspect
the containers in person before buying
them seeing the container is more
preferable but if it's not possible to
inspect the container physically ask for
photos of all corner joints and also
underneath and above the containers to
ascertain the exact state of the
container before paying for them homes
build from shipping containers can be
real health concern because of the
possibility of multiple toxic exposures
from toxic spillages and contamination
from various cargo products very old
containers multiply the risk even
further if you must use old containers
consider sandblasting all internal
surfaces down to the bare metal then
seal and repaint with non-toxic paint to
avoid all these problems it is advisable
to buy a one-way shipping container
whenever possible
number five using wrong type of
insulation for a container to be
conducive for human habitation indoor
climate control is essential steel is a
good conductor of heat therefore the
home will need to be insulated better
than conventional houses especially in
regions with extreme temperature
variations without a thoughtful and
comprehensive temperature control
strategy your shipping container home
could be absolutely freezing in cold
climates or a smoking hot box in summer
in addition condensation and dampness
can easily form on the interior walls
forming rust which can be very costly to
remove the local climate should dictate
the type of insulation to use in very
cold climates the insulation used should
provide a seamless vapor barrier while
in hot and dry climates the insulation
used should be appropriate to keep the
heat away with this in mind there is no
one-size-fits-all scenario when it comes
to insulation spray foam insulation is
the best to use under normal conditions
because of the advantages that come with
it
other types of insulation such as
insulation panels blanket insulation
lightweight concrete plaster planted
roof garden and recycled eco-friendly
materials offer alternatives to use
number four over modification of
containers incorporating design flair
into shipping containers is not a bad
thing
cutting out too much steel from the
walls and the roof interferes with the
structural integrity and strength of
shipping containers cutting out steel
for windows and doors is almost
negligible but removing entire or large
portions of the walls or the roof may
need to consult an expert especially
multiple storey buildings even though
the corners have a container module are
extremely strong in fact they can be
stacked up to eight containers high when
they are fully loaded the roof and walls
are not that strong the modules are
designed to be stacked of the corners
loading at any other position or making
openings in the roof and walls
introduces weak points calling for
further reinforcement with steel
sections this eventually translates into
additional costs and time overruns on
the project number three using
inexperienced contractor or builder
shipping container homes are relatively
a new way of building across the globe
finding a building contractor who has
experience in building a shipping
container home can be one of the hardest
things to do when you want to build one
most people want to build their shipping
container homes themselves however
sometimes this just isn't possible
either because they don't have enough
time or they don't have previous DIY
experience ensure you get a contractor
with experience so they will be able to
advise you and guide you throughout the
process and deliver the project within
budget apart from the general contractor
specialized contractors are necessary
for specialized works such as electrical
and plumbing works at number two
ignoring building planning laws and
regulations
this certainly can be one of the hardest
part of building a shipping container
home
however this requirement isn't just
unique to shipping container homes it's
applicable to all new homes which are
built in the United States and other
parts of the world regardless of their
construction material obtaining a
building permit can take months even
years and cost several thousand dollars
depending on where you need to build it
is advisable factor in the time overrun
costs that come with building permit
delays however in some cities if your
land lies outside of city zoning this
means your land lies outside of the
building permit regulations you can
build there without a permit before
embarking on any shipping container
project carry out a proper research on
your local planning laws and acquired
the relevant permits to prevent hitting
a brick wall with your project last but
not least at number one assuming
container homes are cheap to build the
general assumption that building a
shipping container home is cheaper than
is not necessarily true container
housing may be a viable alternative
accommodation option but it depends on
so many factors such as the location of
the house the size of the house the type
of finish is used and the cost of
contingencies container homes involve a
lot of welding welding takes a long time
and is expensive so try to keep it to a
minimum over modification of containers
is another source of additional costs
container walls are load-bearing and
bracing cutting openings will need
additional steel reinforcements hence
additional costs the sheer size and
weight of the modules generally require
a crane or forklift to place each
container on location this is a costume
would perhaps not incur in conventional
build insulation is another cost to look
at if you are building in a tropical
climate your only challenge is to keep
away heat but this is not the case for
temperate climates in this case you need
to keep off the cold and conserve heat
at the same time this cost variation is
worth exploring
looking at all the hidden costs and
extra work that is needed to make these
steel boxes habitable I may be too early
to generalize that building with
shipping containers is a cheaper option
did you find our analysis exhaustive and
informative enough to help you start
your container home project or if you
have built your own shipping container
home let us know what mistakes you made
in your project and how you corrected or
are planning to remedy them moving
forward if you feel we have left out
something kindly let us know by posting
in the comments below if you liked the
video give it a thumbs up and feel free
to share it remember to subscribe for
our weekly videos on shipping container
homes see you in the next video
[Music]
you